B. burgdorferi sensu lato are obligate parasites heavily dependent upon their hosts for nutritional support. Proliferation of each B. burgdorferi species is contingent upon its transmission to other reservoir animals. This is accomplished via each species' preferred Ixodes tick, which acquires the spirochetes during its larval stage blood feed and passes them on to other reservoir hosts after molting into its nymphal stage. Essential to the propagation and survival of these Borrelia species is their plasmid-encoded production of lipoproteins. The most important and well researched are outer-surface proteins (Osp) A-F and VIsE. [16] These components along with other surface lipoproteins allow the spirochete to attach to and survive in a variety of small mammals, birds, and tick arthropods. Throughout most the year life cycle, the spirochetes remain dormant within the gut of the nymphal tick. During this period, the dominant protein expressed on the outer-surface of the bacteria is protein OspA. In late spring and summer, when the nymphal tick engages in another feed, constituents present in the ingested mammalian blood stimulates the spirochete’s production of OspC, which enables the organism to spread in the tick eventually reaching the tick’s salivary gland, where it becomes coated by a protective tick protein, known as VIsE. [17] Once the tick bites the reservoir host, OspC affords the bacteria protection from the animal's innate immune system. The VIsE protein is involved in resistance to acquired immunity. [18,19] The reservoir hosts, chiefly rodents and birds, provide a favorable environment supporting bacterial growth, but they do not themselves develop disease. Because B. burgdorferi do not possess other virulence factors or have the ability to produce toxins, disease in humans is the consequence of the immunopathologic response to the invading organism and to the bacterial products it produces. In-vitro laboratory growth of B. burgdorferi requires incubation in a special medium named Barbour–Stoenner–Kelly medium, preferably at 33°C.
