Assuming the diagnosis of Lyme disease is accurate, 90% or more of individuals treated with proven and recommended antimicrobial therapy (Table 2) have successful outcomes. [22] Conversely, long-term outcome studies of untreated patients followed prospectively have found many of these individuals to have developed any one of a variety of clinical manifestations contributed to Lyme borreliosis at some point in time after the spontaneous resolution of their EM lesion. [49] First line agents consist of orally given doxycycline, amoxicillin, and cefuroxime axetil. Doxycycline has an added advantage of possessing antimicrobial activity against A. phagocytophilium in the event that coinfection has occurred. Macrolide antibiotics are considered to be second-line choices in those with intolerance or contraindications to beta-lactam medications and doxycycline, but require cautious clinical follow-up since they have been found to be less effective. [95,96] Historically, the length of treatment has been 14–21 days, however, recently available evidence supports shortening the duration of treatment with doxycycline to 10 days. [97] Retreatment is rarely if at all ever necessary, as individuals with persistent subjective symptoms, but no objective findings of ongoing active infection have not been found to benefit from additional courses of antibiotics. [98,99] The third-generation intravenous (IV) cephalosporin antibiotic, ceftriaxone, has excellent in-vitro antibacterial activity against B. burgdorferi, but in almost all clinical circumstances provides little if any clear benefit over the use of oral doxycycline. [100–102] Nonetheless, 2–4-week courses of intravenous ceftriaxone is still commonly recommended and given for in patients with Lyme disease and unquestionable objective neurologic abnormalities. [103] Likewise, hospitalized patients with high-degree atrioventricular block are initially treated with intravenous ceftriaxone and with completion of the 14–21-day treatment course using an oral agent. [22] Placement of a permanent cardiac pacemaker is rarely, if ever required, although at times, a temporary transvenous or external pacemaker is indicated. Lesser degrees of heart block (first-degree AV block, PR interval < 300 msec) can be managed with oral agents alone.
