We believe the observations in this study highlight the need for an improved taxonomy of this clinical syndrome. Aseptic meningitis is by definition a diagnosis in retrospect, is often inappropriately used in-terchangeably with viral meningitis, [13,15] and does not accurately reflect the prospective management dilemmas faced by the clinician. Recent technical advances using polymerase chain reaction assays for enteroviral ribonucleic acid [16,17] and cytokine levels (interleukin-1, tumor necrosis factor) [18,19] in CSF to distinguish viral from bacterial meningitis are important, but are not widely available and oversimplify the complexity of differential diagnoses and management dilemmas. The terms "enigmatic meningitis" or "meningitis of unknown origin" (ie, acute meningitis with a negative CSF Gram's stain) would be more precise, inclusive, and realistic for practitioners, and would provide an improved taxonomy for future prospective studies.
This study shows that the clinical presentation of patients with acute meningitis with a Gram's stain negative for bacteria (or enigmatic meningitis) is a common presenting emergency department problem: approximately 86 cases per year in an emergency department with 71,000 visits per year. A conservative estimate, therefore, is about 1 case per 1,000 visits per year. Extrapolating this estimate to short-term, general, nonfederal hospitals in the United States (n = 5,202) in which there were an estimated 85,143,562 total emergency department visits in 1990, [20] one would anticipate about 85,000 cases of enigmatic meningitis per year in the United States. Given recent data documenting the high expenditures for inpatient care in the United States ($4,814 per admission), [21] it can be estimated that over 300 million dollars is being spent annually on these patients. Although this is only an estimate, the high cost of potentially inappropriate evaluation and hospitalization supports the concept that this is a formidable but neglected problem. Efforts to identify and reduce unnecessary hospitalization, use of antibiotics, and imaging are urgently needed.
