A 5-year-old girl with no significant medical history presented with unsteady gait that first appeared 4 days prior to examination. In the intervening period, her gait progressively worsened until she was unable to walk. There was no history of fever, rash, recent immunizations, tick bite, or exposures to infectious disease. Medical history was unremarkable. The family lives in Silifke/Mersin, which is a semiurban area in southern coast of Anatolia (Mediterranean region). Vital signs and physical examination were normal. On neurological examination, her higher mental functions and cranial nerve functions were normal and there were no signs of meningitis. She had bilateral cerebellar signs in the form of hypotonia of all limbs, dysarthria, nystagmus, bilateral dysmetria, and intention tremor. She also exhibited marked ataxia. Superficial and deep tendon reflexes were normal and plantar responses were flexor. Laboratory analyses revealed normal blood leukocyte count (5670/mm3), serum C-reactive protein (3 mg/L), and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (30 mm/h). Neither computed tomography (CT) nor magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed any abnormalities in the brain. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) showed a mild pleocytosis (30 cells/mm3, all mononuclear) but normal protein and glucose concentrations. Acyclovir, cefotaxime, and clarithromycin were administered empirically. Serum markers for herpes simplex virus, cytomegalovirus, varicella zoster, mumps, rubella, rubeola, Epstein-Barr virus, and mycoplasma were all negative. Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) infusion was started on day 7 to suppress the postviral immune response that may be responsible for acute cerebellar ataxia. On the fifth day after admission, serologic evaluation for Borrelia burgdorferi was positive for pathogen-specific IgM but negative for IgG. After we obtained these results, the history of the patient was reevaluated for tick bite. She did not recall any injury, rash, or tick bite. Acyclovir and clarithromycin were discontinued on day 10 and she was administered intravenous cefotaxime 200 mg/kg per day for the next 28 days. Because the patient did not give permission for a new lumbar puncture, CSF Lyme serology could not be performed. Her gait improved gradually during cefotaxime treatment. At the time of discharge on day 28, her neurologic examination was normal. Serum was positive for both B. burgdorferi IgM and IgG antibodies on day 28 but only for IgG on day 120.