Histopathology of peripheral nerve biopsy specimens from patients with neurological manifestations of Lyme disease shows a perivascular infiltrate of lymphocytes, plasma cells and histiocytes in association with patchy multifocal axonal degeneration [179,484-486]. A lymphocytic infiltrate has also been observed in the meninges [365], extending into the white and gray matter in an advanced case, along with infiltration of dorsal root ganglia and nerve roots [484,487]. It is likely that these infiltrating immune cells also contribute to the production of inflammatory and neurotoxic substances. T-cell lines and clones isolated from the CSF of patients with LNB show a strong polarization towards a type 1 cytokine pattern (high production of IFNg and mostly undetectable levels of IL-4) [488,489]. When CSF mononuclear cells (MNC) from adult patients with LNB are stimulated with borrelial antigens in vitro, there is a marked upregulation of the number of IFNgsecreting cells [490-494], and this upregulation is significantly greater compared to peripheral blood, suggesting a strong compartmentalization of the Borrelia-specific IFNg response [490,494]. However, the number of responder cells shows pronounced variation between patients [490-494], as do the concentrations of IFNg and essentially all other cytokines and chemokines that have been measured in CSF of patients with LNB [495-497]. The actual concentrations of IFNg in CSF are remarkably low [495,497]. Not only have CD8þ T cells been detected in nerve biopsy samples from patients with ACA-associated polyneuropathy [216], but clonal expansion of CD8 T cells has been demonstrated in the CSF of patients with acute LNB [498]. The expanded clones produced TNFa and some IFNg in response to stimulation with Borrelia antigens. While the role of these Borrelia-specific CD8þ T cells in LNB remains to be established, their detection in tissues that are targeted soon after Borrelia infection suggests a role in early host defense. On the other hand, peripheral CD8þ and gd T cells were identified as the predominant sources of Borrelia-specific IFNg production in patients with chronic Lyme borreliosis (mostly LNB) [499]. In view of the strong CSF compartmentalization of the immune response, the relevance of these findings is unclear and the precise role of this T cell subset remains to be elucidated.
