Lyme borreliosis’ natural propensity to evolve from one stage into another, which at times overlap but typically present with their own set of signs, symptoms, and objective measures, is a unique feature of this disease and important factor when creating a differential diagnosis inclusive of both infectious and non-infectious entities potentially accounting for a patient’s condition. Furthermore, for some stages of Lyme disease, the time of year of onset coupled with the geographic area where the patient lives or may have traveled to are important epidemiologic pieces of information when considering infection with B. burgdorferi. Local red skin lesions are not uncommon following the bite of other non-infectious disease transmissible arthropods. Features that help to distinguish this hypersensitivity event from a tick bite from those of B. burgdorferi EM lesions are that the former appears almost immediately, rapidly expands in size, is associated with local pruritus, is relative small in size, and tends to resolve promptly. Localized soft tissue infections with Staphylococcal aureus (especially methicillin-resistant strains) frequently and incorrectly attributed to unwitnessed spider bites, along with other pyogenic infections, generally evolve into a cellulitic process fairly distinct from EM. The rare vesicular EM may at times be confused with Herpes simplex and Varicella zoster infections, the later of which can be easily excluded by its dermatomal distribution. In the absence of EM, the nonspecific manifestations of early Lyme disease such as fever, malaise, headache, myalgias, pain on neck flexion, regional and localized lymphadenopathy, invariably are attributed to an unconfirmed ‘viral illness’. Altered cranial nerve function associated with Lyme disease, either single, most commonly the 7th nerve, or multiple, may also be a manifestation of reactivated H. simplex and V. zoster (Ramsey–Hunt) infection, respectively. Lyme arthritis differs from other ‘septic joint’ infections by its insidious onset and lack of pathogen isolation from synovial fluid that would be expected with pyogenic infections such as S. aureus, etc. However, in adults, reactive arthritis following some gastrointestinal and sexually transmitted infections as well as non-infection inflammatory arthritic processes may take on similar presentations. Children with Lyme arthritis often are first thought to possibly have juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, as was the circumstance surrounding the early recognition of Lyme disease in Connecticut in the 1970s.
